Diagnostics Port configuration supported scenarios (#5786)
dotnet/dotnet-monitor: documentation/configuration/diagnostic-port-configuration.md

    value: "10"
  ```
</details>

## Diagnostics Port configuration supported scenarios

### `dotnet monitor` in `Connect` mode

As noted the default configuration for `dotnet monitor` is `Connect` mode. This assumes your .NET apps does not have any additional diagnostics configurations enabled and as a result is communicating with `dotnet monitor` via the diagnostics port in the default location. 

> The following table highlights that triggers and most of the advanced collection scenarios are not supported in this scenario. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following tables highlight that triggers and most of the advanced collection scenarios are not supported in this mode. 
```

| API | Supported |
| :-------- | :-------: |
| /process�| Yes |
| /dump�| Yes |
| /gcdump�| Yes |
| /trace�| Yes |
| /metrics�| Yes |
| /livemetrics�| Yes |
| /logs�| Yes |
| /info�| Yes |
| /operations�| Yes |
| /collectionrules�| No |
| /stacks�| No |
| /exceptions�| No |
| /parameters�| No |

| Trigger | Supported |
| :-------- | :-------: |
| Trigger - Startup�| No |
| Trigger - EventCounter�| No |
| Trigger - EventMeter�| No |
| Trigger - AspNetResponseStatus�| No |
| Trigger - AspNetRequestCount�| No |
| Trigger - AspNetRequestDuration�| No |

### `dotnet monitor` in `Listen` mode

When `dotnet monitor` is in `Listen` mode, you must explicitly configure your .NET processes to connect to `dotnet monitor`, the options for the .NET process are either `suspend` or `nosuspend`.

#### .NET process in Connect `suspend` mode

> The `suspend` option indicates that the .NET process will suspend its own startup execution until it successfully communicates with `dotnet monitor`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `suspend` option indicates that the .NET process will suspend its own startup execution until it successfully communicates with `dotnet monitor`. This is the default mode when the `DOTNET_DiagnosticPorts` environment variable is used. See [Diagnostic Port](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/core/diagnostics/diagnostic-port#configure-additional-diagnostic-ports) for more information on how to configure this mode.
```

> As show in this table all scenarion are supported for this configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As shown in these tables, all scenarios are supported for this configuration.
```

| API | Supported |
| :-------- | :-------: |
| /process�| Yes |
| /dump�| Yes |
| /gcdump�| Yes |
| /trace�| Yes |
| /metrics�| Yes |
| /livemetrics�| Yes |
| /logs�| Yes |
| /info�| Yes |
| /operations�| Yes |
| /collectionrules�| Yes |
| /stacks�| Yes |
| /exceptions�| Yes |
| /parameters�| Yes |

| Trigger | Supported |
| :-------- | :-------: |
| Trigger - Startup�| Yes |
| Trigger - EventCounter�| Yes |
| Trigger - EventMeter�| Yes |
| Trigger - AspNetResponseStatus�| Yes |
| Trigger - AspNetRequestCount�| Yes |
| Trigger - AspNetRequestDuration�| Yes |

#### .NET process in Connect `nosuspend`

> The `nosuspend` option indicates that the .NET process will not permanently suspend execution, and will continue to run even if it is unable to communicate with `dotnet monitor`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `nosuspend` option indicates that the .NET process will not permanently suspend execution, and will continue to run even if it is unable to communicate with `dotnet monitor`. See [Diagnostic Port](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/core/diagnostics/diagnostic-port#configure-additional-diagnostic-ports) for more information on how to configure this mode.
```
